Storage Write Removal Bug: Clarification about the case the storage value is read back. (#194)
ethereum/solidity-blog: _posts/2022-09-08-storage-write-removal-before-conditional-termination.md

    - It overwrites the storage write in (1).
    - It reverts.

If the initial storage write could possibly be read back (directly or in any internal or external call) between (1) and (3), it is, of course, never removed.

> 

Author: Hm... thinking about this: While this is a nice thing to mention, it opens up another issue...

There can be cases, in which reading the initial storage value back can be resolved by the ``LoadResolver``... after which the bug can *still* kick in... so claiming that any read-back prevents the bug is also misloading... i.e.

```
{
  let x := 0
  let y := 1
  sstore(x, y)
  let z := sload(x)
  conditionallyReturn()
  sstore(x,y)
  ...
}
```
Can first load-resolve to
```
{
  let x := 0
  let y := 1
  sstore(x, y)
  let z := y
  conditionallyReturn()
  sstore(x,y)
  ...
}
```
and then *still* loose the first ``sstore``...

Author: I could remark that as well as a proviso to the proviso :-)... but this makes me wonder if *not* mentioning it isn't actually simpler, even though it may make this seem even more severe than it is...

Reviewer: I think it is a good idea to mention it. I'd simply add something like this at the end of the sentence you added:
```
Note, however, that in presence of the optimizer it is not always easy to determine if a storage read at the Solidity level will actually translate to a load instruction in assembly. For example the [Load Resolver](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/internals/optimizer.html#load-resolver) step can use the knowledge of values that were written before by the contract to replace any `sload()` directly with the value that it would read.
```

Author: We should have footnotes in these posts :-).

Reviewer: What about footnotes to footnotes :)

Author: > What about footnotes to footnotes :)

Even better :-D.

> If the initial storage write could possibly be read back (directly or in any internal or external call) between (1) and (3), it is, of course, never removed. (Note, however, that in presence of the optimizer it is not always easy to determine if a storage read at the Solidity level will actually translate to a load instruction in assembly. For example the [Load Resolver](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/internals/optimizer.html#load-resolver) step can use the knowledge of values that were written before by the contract to replace a `sload()` directly with the value that it would read.)

Reviewer: Why the parenthesis though? I think it would work just fine without one and overall the text is more readable if it's less nested (just like code incidentally :P).

Author: I'm afraid that all those rather unrelated details become to distracting from the core issue at some point :-). I was half-serious above when I said I'd like footnotes :-D. If we had them, I'd make this one - parentheses were a half-measure towards that... but yeah, probably not really helpful and rather making things worse, I can remove them again.

Reviewer: I think it's fine without parenthesis. It would only make sense if we could really have a footnote. Or a background section that would explain Load Resolver :) As is, I'd leave as a normal part of the paragraph.

Author: Yep, did that.

> If the initial storage write could possibly be read back (directly or in any internal or external call) between (1) and (3), it is, of course, never removed. (Note, however, that in presence of the optimizer it is not always easy to determine if a storage read at the Solidity level will actually translate to a load instruction in assembly. For example the [Load Resolver](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/internals/optimizer.html#load-resolver) step can use the knowledge of values that were written before by the contract to replace a `sload()` directly with the value that it would read.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the initial storage write could possibly be read back (directly or in any internal or external call) between (1) and (3), it is, of course, never removed. (Note, however, that in presence of the optimizer it is not always easy to determine if a storage read at the Solidity level will actually translate to a load instruction in assembly. For example the [Load Resolver](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/internals/optimizer.html#load-resolver) step can use the knowledge of values that were written before by the contract to replace a ``sload()`` directly with the value that it would read.)
```

Oh, looks like I used single backticks :)

Technically those are fine too but for some reason we're using double ones on the blog...

## Technical Details

> The Yul optimizer step responsible for the bug is the Unused Store Eliminator (abbreviated as `S` in the [optimizer step sequence](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/yul.html#optimization-step-sequence)). It is meant to remove storage writes that it can determine to be redundant. A storage write is considered redundant, if in all code paths continuing after it either of the following happens, before the value could ever be read back again:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Yul optimizer step responsible for the bug is the Unused Store Eliminator (abbreviated as ``S`` in the [optimizer step sequence](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/yul.html#optimization-step-sequence)). It is meant to remove storage writes that it can determine to be redundant. A storage write is considered redundant, if in all code paths continuing after it either of the following happens, before the value could ever be read back again:
```

## Technical Details

The Yul optimizer step responsible for the bug is the Unused Store Eliminator (abbreviated as `S` in the [optimizer step sequence](https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/yul.html#optimization-step-sequence)). It is meant to remove storage writes that it can determine to be redundant. A storage write is considered redundant, if in all code paths continuing after it either of the following happens:

> - A subsequent write overwrites the value written in the initial write (without any possibility of the initial write being read back before the overwrite).

Reviewer: How about this? Too much "write" :P
```suggestion
- The value is overwritten by a subsequent write without ever being read.
```

Also, doesn't the remark about being read back apply to the revert as well?

Author: Yeah, it applies to both - I'll try to add something before the items.
